YOUR GUIDE TO
CAPE TOWN AND  THE WESTERN CAPE

CONTENTS
Welcome 
Discover Cape Town                              
and the Western Cape
Accommodation Shopping Discover Nature and Adventure Top Indian & Vegan Restaurants in     
Cape Town and the Western Cape
Cape Town Big 6
Discover New Experiences
Published by: Wesgro, the Official Tourism, Trade and Investment Promotion Agency for Cape Town and the Western Cape.To visit our inspiring province is to love our province. Cape Town 
city is a bustling melting pot of cultures, tastes and experiences for young and old. You’ll find state of the art shopping malls, 
open-air markets, a dynamic night life and windows into our 
rich history. You’re going to want to discover more, and a world of natural beauty lies beyond the boundaries of the city in the 
greater Western Cape regions: the Cape West Coast (Weskus), the 
Cape Karoo, the Garden Route & Klein Karoo, the Cape Winelands and the Cape Overberg.
Each area is worth exploring and has its own charm, you’ll 
uncover diverse culinary delights, award-winning wine estates, 
nature in full bloom, wide open spaces and deserts, azure 
waters and white sandy beaches, luxury experiences and animal encounters that will make your journey truly unforgettable. But 
that’s not all you’ll find here.  Drawing strength from its diversity 
it’s the people that make our destination beautiful, and they invite you to share in our colourful heritage.  WELCOME
Welcome to Cape Town 
and the Western CapePOPULATION:
6,166,324 (Stats SA) people call Cape Town and the Western 
Cape their home. 
CLIMATE:
We have a year-round mild Mediterranean climate, with temperatures averaging between 15°C - 27°C.
CURRENCY:
South African Rand (ZAR): R1 = 100 cents
Coin denomination: 5c, 10c, 20c, 50c, R1, R2 and R5
Banknote denomination: R10, R20, R50, R100 and R200
FOREIGN EXCHANGE:
It is important to note that you can only pay in Rands in South 
Africa. Money can be exchanged at the airport, commercial 
banks, Rennies Travel and American Express. These can 
be found in most shopping centres in the Western Cape.  
You may also find exchange facilities in some hotels.
Banking hours are: 9am – 3.30pm (weekdays) 
and 8.30am – 11am (Saturdays) and are closed on Sundays.
All major credit cards are accepted at most establishments in 
the Western Cape.
Banking hours are: 9am – 3.30pm (weekdays)
and 8.30am – 11am (Saturdays) and are closed on Sundays.
All major credit cards are accepted at most establishments in 
the Western Cape.
©City Sightseeing

CAPE TOWN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT ROUTE NETWORKBUSINESS HOURS
Shops at the major malls such as the V&A waterfront and 
Canal Walk are open until 9pm everyday, while the shops in 
shopping centres close at 7pm. Informal traders and flea 
markets generally trade from 9pm - 4pm. Muslim owned businesses are closed between 12pm and 2pm on Fridays.
SAFETY TIPS
Avoid walking in deserted and dark places at night.
Never allow strangers to assist you in any way at ATMs.
At night, park in a secure and well-lit area with street guards.
Keep photocopies and all valuable documents in a safe place.
DRINKING WATER
Drinking water in South Africa is safe to drink and cook with 
when taken from taps in urban areas. Not all tap water in 
rural areas is safe for consumption, so take precautions if 
necessary.
EMERGENCY NUMBERS
For all emergency services from your mobile dial: 112
All emergencies from landline: 107
South African Police Service: 10111LANGUAGES
South Africa has 11 official languages but English, Afrikaans 
and Xhosa are the most frequently heard in our Province.
Some local chit-chat:
ENGLISH AFRIKAANS XHOSA
Good morning Goeiemore Molo
Hello Hallo Bhota
Goodbye Totsiens Sala Kakuhle
Thank you Dankie Enkosi
How much does 
this cost?Hoeveel kos dit? Yimalini?
Yes Ja Ewe
No Nee Hayi
DUTY FREE SHOPPING
All stores must charge the Value Added Tax (VAT) of 15% that is levied on the purchase of most goods in South Africa. As a 
foreign visitor you may apply for a refund of the VAT you pay 
while in the country provided you apply before you depart. 
Ensure that you receive your tax receipts for all purchases 
made, to claim your VAT refund, present all your tax receipts to the VAT administrator at your point of departure.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
Dubai
TURKEY
Istanbul
ETHIOPIA
Addis Ababa
NETHERLANDS
Amsterdam
GERMANY
Frankfurt, Munich, 
KENYA
Nairobi 
UNITED KINGDOM
London Gatwick, Heathrow 
BOTSWANA
Maun, Gaboron
FRANCEParis
SWITZERLAND
Zurich
NAMIBIA
Walvis Bay, Windhoek
SINGAPORE
Singapore
ZAMBIA
Livingstone
ANGOLA
Luanda
MAURITIUS 
Port Louis
QATAR 
Doha AUSTRIA
ViennaCHINA
Hong KongRWANDA
KigaliZIMBABWEVictoria Falls, Harare                                                our oceans, our desert, our forests, our city, our rivers, our salt pans, our winelands, our farms, our 
beaches, our parklands, our game reserves, our studios, and any other location you could possibly need.  
Cape Town and the Western Cape have as many locations as you have ideas. Our state-of-the-art facilities 
and budget-loving exchange rate will ensure a seamless journey from script to screen. This is why we’ve been the destination of choice for films and series such as Bloodshot, Tomb Raider, Maze Runner: The Death Cure, The Dark Tower, Resident Evil: The Last Chapter, Mad Max: Fury Road, The Brothers Grimsby, Eye in the Sky, Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom, Blood Drive, Homeland S4,The Crown S1-2, 
Outlander S3, Troy: Fall of a City, Black Sails S1-4, Origin, and Warrior.  
The moderate climate, highly competitive rates, a skilled and well established commercial and stills 
industry, as well as world-class animation, VFX, and post-production facilities are among the many benefits of shooting in the Cape. Mandated by the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape government 
to promote the region’s film and media industry, Wesgro is ideally positioned to help you turn your ideas 
into a reality. Find out how Wesgro can support you by visiting www.wesgro.co.za/film, and download our new e-book for a look at some of the inspiring locations waiting for you. 
Cape Town and the Western Cape. 
An inspiring place to create. 
For more information contact: Film and Media Promotion team 
+27 (0) 21 487 8600 | film@wesgro.co.za | www.wesgro.co.za/filmWe’re famous 
for our mountain,


Discover Cape Town 
and the Western Cape
Cape Town
Cape Town has always been considered the jewel in the crown of the 
Western Cape with the city’s natural beauty, depth of experiences on offer and friendly locals well known.
With a history as rich as it is diverse, the Mother City is a heady mix 
of cultures, blended in a tumultuous past, making it one of the world’s most cosmopolitan and intriguing cities to visit. With its natural beauty, blending seamlessly with its cultural, artistic and bespoke experienc-es, there is something on offer for traveller of all kinds. 
The unmatched wonder of Table Mountain is always popular, while in 
the summer, the many beaches across the city’s coastline are packed with both locals and foreigners alike. It is also quickly becoming a favourite for those seeking something more extreme, with shark cage diving, abseiling and sky diving just some of the adrenaline fuelled activities on offer.
It is the gastronomic capital of South Africa, with its restaurants 
consistently topping the local and international lists, while it boasts not one, but two world class wine routes, with the oldest wine farm in the country in Groot Constantia. 
The city is also home to some of the most dynamic and versatile 
theatre venues you could ask for, including the Artscape, The Fugard and Maynardville Open-Air Theatre. The heritage of this great city 
is unmatched, its story to be found in any number of museums and 
heritage sites around the city. 
From the foreboding Rhodes Memorial, which sits along the slopes of 
Devil’s Peak, in remembrance of the city’s colonial past, to the emo-
tional and torrid history of Robben Island and District Six, Cape Town’s 
tale is equally one of tragedy and heartache, inspiration and a triumph. 
With so much on offer, is it any wonder that Cape Town continues to 
welcome the world to its doorstep? 
Must-do Experience
The Test Kitchen
The country’s number one restaurant, The Test Kitchen, is based at 
the Old Biscuit Mill in Woodstock and is the brainchild of award-win-ning chef, Luke Dale-Roberts. While the restaurant is renowned for its menu, the venue is not uptight or overly elaborate. The experiences take you around the world, starting off in the Dark Room, before finish-ing up with the full taster and wine flight experience in the Light Room. 
This is more than a meal, it’s an experience. Booking essential.Cape Winelands
The Western Cape is a place known for its abundance of quality wine 
and the Cape, in particular, is intrinsically tied to the vine. Nowhere is this truer than in the Cape Winelands, a region overflowing with award-winning vintages and home to a number of world class vine -
yards.
Towns such as Stellenbosch, Franschhoek, Paarl, Wellington and Rob-
ertson are now iconic in terms of the wine they produce and together they produce wine that is as diverse as it is bountiful. Set aside plenty of time if you visit the Cape Winelands, because you will never cover it in a day…
But while the wine put the Cape Winelands on the map, it deliver plenty 
on the food front as well, with world class restaurants in abundance, with Franschhoek and Stellenbosch, in particular, leading the way. Both towns are home to a number of award-winning restaurants, ranging from fine dining to more relaxed experiences.
And you can add craft beer and whisky to the menu now, with the 
region quickly becoming a leader in both, ensuring that it continues to 
expand on what it has to offer. 
Must-do experience:
Garden Tour at Babylonstoren
Babylonstoren’s daily guided garden tour starts at the Farm Shop 
at 10am. One of the experienced gardeners will be your guide on this tour, during which guests are encouraged to pick, taste, smell and touch while walking through the garden. Each of the 300 plant varieties is edible or has medicinal value. The beautiful garden is not only pleasing to the eye, but also provides the restaurants with fresh produce, harvested daily. Babylonstoren’s enthusiastic guides will share some of the garden’s special stories with you and give practical gardening tips.
©South African Tourism
Cape Karoo
Known for its wide-open spaces, the Cape Karoo is where you want to go when the pace of city life is something you want to escape. This is where you go to get off the grid.
A place of incredible beauty, wild game, clear skies and magical 
sunsets, the Cape Karoo has a number of Nature Reserves and game 
farms, boasting an abundance of wildlife. The Karoo National Park, for 
example, is home to black rhino, lions, and other wild game. 
Another animal in abundance in the Karoo is sheep, who roam ‘freely’ 
around the area on large plots of land, sampling a wide range of indig-
enous, aromatic plants. As a result, the Karoo has become famous for 
its succulent and tasty lamb dishes. You need to sample some when in 
the area!
Perhaps the best way to see this ancient land is by train, with the 
luxurious Rovos Rail running through the area, as well as the more af -
fordable Premier Classe, Blue Train and Shosholoza trains. What better way to see this magical place than by train?
While in the area, be sure to visit Matjiesfontein, a tiny 19th Century 
town, seemingly untouched by time, and was once considered the 
jewel of the Western Cape.
Must-do experience:
Stargazing:
Stargazing is a must when visiting anywhere in the Cape Karoo it only 
takes you to look up and view stars pinned against a black canvas. From open vast landscapes, to sunsets followed by open starry night skies. The Cape Karoo is an untouched region just waiting to be discov -
ered by you.
©South African Tourism

Cape Overberg
Lying between the Cape Peninsula and the Garden Route, the Cape 
Overberg is known as the ‘breadbasket’ of the Cape, because of its wheat fields and large harvest of fruits. 
This is a place that boasts great diversity with coastal towns such as 
Hermanus, known as the jewel of the Cape Whale Coast for its abun-
dance of marine wildlife, the beautiful Elgin Valley, an under-appreci-
ated wine region and Swellendam, a jaw-dropping beautiful natural 
wonderland, combing to create a region unlike any other. With a land-
scape dominated by gentle, undulating hills, enclosed by the ocean and 
foreboding mountain ranges, the Cape Overberg is a favourite getaway 
for those seeking outdoor pursuits and adventure.
The region also boasts and abundance of animal life – both land and 
ocean dwelling – with the wild horses that roam the wetlands between 
Bot River and Kleinmond having been there for as long as people can 
remember and Hermanus a favourite breeding ground for the South-
ern Right whale. Visit the coastal town from May to October and you’re 
virtually guaranteed a sighting of these magnificent ocean animals.
Walker Bay, meanwhile, produces the country’s most southerly wine, 
while the region boasts fantastic seafood, artisanal cheeses, and much 
more for which to pair it with.
Must-do experience:
Shark Cage Diving in Gansbaai
Shark cage diving is the best way to experience one of the ocean’s 
most majestic, and feared, predators up close. Easily one of the most popular activities for those visiting Cape Town and the Western Cape, the small town of Gansbaai is arguably the best place to view these in-credible animals. Known as ‘Shark Alley’, Dyer Island just off Gansbaai is a hot spot for viewing Great White sharks, giving you an opportunity to look them – and your fears – in the eye…
Garden Route and Klein Karoo
One the most beautiful, diverse and awe-inspiring regions in the coun-try, the Garden Route and Klein Karoo is also one of the most-loved road trips to embark on. Stretching from Witsand to Plettenberg Bay, right around to Oudtshoorn as well as Calitzdorp and Ladismith on the world-renowned Route 62, this is a place where adventure lies around every corner.
With everything from majestic mountains – and equally impressive 
mountain passes – to brilliantly blue coastlines and thick forested are-as, the region is a natural wonderland to explore with a hugely diverse number of experiences.
Route 62 runs through some fantastic small towns, with a number of 
options available to you – from olive and fruit farms, lesser-known, but equally impressive wineries, and nature reserves. 
And while the Garden Route is often celebrated for its exquisite coastal 
beauty, brilliant beaches and marvellous lagoons, it is also a golfer’s 
paradise with a number of world class courses on offer, including Fan-
court and Pinnacle Point, with many designed by world famous golfers.
For the adventurous, there are few better playgrounds to explore, with 
a myriad of trails, running through indigenous forests and up epic, jaw-dropping passes, while the those who prefer the water sure to be spoilt by what is on offer in Knysna, the Wilderness and Plettenberg 
Bay.
Must-do experience
The Cango Caves
The Cango Caves are an iconic site and are both a cultural and natural 
landmark in South Africa. Dated to be around 20-millions years old, the caves are situated in the Swartberg Mountains, 30km outside of town, and are roughly one kilometre in length. You can choose from the Heritage Tour, which lasts for one hour, and runs through the larger 
Cape West Coast
The Cape West Coast (Weskus) is a place so awe-inspiring, so jaw-droppingly beautiful, and so magical, you would need weeks to take it all in. Stretching from Malmesbury, just outside of Cape Town, to the border of the Northern Cape at Touws River, the Cape West Coast is best known for its beautiful beaches and the quaint, seaside towns that populate the region. 
Town such as Langebaan, Lambert’s Bay, Paternoster and Saldanha 
have all become a home-away-from-home for many Western Cape locals and are havens for those looking to escape the city.
The region is also famous for its bountiful seafood, with snoek, 
mussels and crayfish in abundance and understandably the area has become a mecca for restaurants specialising in seafood dishes, the in-gredients of which are usually fresh form the ocean in which they line.
But the Cape West Coast is not just about the sea and all things related 
to it! There are many wonders that lie inland with the aptly named town of Darling famous for its wildflowers, which are in full bloom over September, and its locally produce wines, while the Cederberg Mountains are boast century-old rock art, warm, welcoming locals and 
some of the best hiking, mountain biking and bouldering in the world.
 
Must-do experience:
Rocklands Bouldering
Situated in the Cederberg Mountains, Rocklands is a beautiful area in a 
semi-desert setting. Famous for it’s world class bouldering, there are a large variety of quality climbing options in both bouldering and sport climbing. All the sport routes are single pitch and you will have to do a small amount of walking to get to the different areas. Most of the original climbing is situated on CapeNature land and thus day or week permits must be obtained as permits for bouldering are not covered by Wild Cards. Depending on the time of year you visit, the Weskus can get pretty hot, so take along plenty of water.

GP
WC
KZN
EC
LP
MP
NW
FS
NC31 262
27 271
17 713
10 833
9 634
8 323
7 947
3 424
2 090NUMBER OF GRADED ROOMS IN SOUTH AFRICA, APRIL 2018
Source: Tourism Grading Council, 2018WCNumber of establishments1 5671 800
1 600
1 400
1 200
1 000
800600400200
0823
718669
373328286
162 132
GP KZN EC MP LP NW FS NCNUMBER OF GRADED ESTABLISHMENTS IN SOUTH AFRICA, APRIL 2018
Source: Tourism Grading Council, 2018
The Western Cape now has 1,567 graded properties as of April 2018, with 27,271 graded rooms available throughout the year.Western Cape Accommodation StockACCOMMODATION
Cape Town and the Western Cape offers a variety of accommodation to suit all group types, budgets 
and styles. Value for money, discreet first-class service and style make Cape Town and the Western Cape an inspiring choice to plan a memorable stay for any business or leisure visitor. With over 20 000 bedrooms, the greatest density of Cape Town hotels, boutique hotels, bed and breakfasts, guest houses, self-catering apartments and holiday villas are situated within the city bowl area and immediate South Atlantic Seaboard belt, all within a 10 minute drive from the Cape Town City Centre, Cape Town International Convention Centre or the V&A Waterfront.
11
SHOPPING
Canal Walk, just outside the 
Cape Town city centre, is one 
of the biggest shopping malls in the Southern Hemisphere, 
offering shoppers a choice between hundreds of stores 
offering everything from designer imports to hand-
crafted South African curios. 
Trading hours: 9am to 9pm, 
Monday – Sunday.
www.canalwalk.co.zaTyger Valley Shopping 
Centre, a short drive out 
of the city centre, offers a waterfront, cinemas, 
restaurants and about 275 shops, boutiques and outlets 
to cater for every shopping need. 
Trading hours: 9am to 7pm, 
Monday – Saturday and 9am – 
5pm, Sunday.
www.tygervalley.co.zaThe Victoria and Alfred 
Waterfront is one of Africa’s 
most visited destinations and attracts 24 million people 
every year. Its setting is in the oldest working harbour 
in the southern hemisphere and it has Table Mountain as a 
dramatic backdrop. With over 
450 retail outlets
Trading Hours: Monday –9am 
to 9pm, Monday – Sunday
www.waterfront.co.zaCape Town and the Western Cape offers a variety of shopping, offerings from international luxury 
brands, Cape Town produced designer clothing and curios, quality diamonds, tanzanite and fine jewellery and world class collections of art. For renowned brands and quality South African haute couture, plan a visit to one of the many shopping experiences across Cape Town and the Western Cape.

Snorkel with Cape Fur seals in their natural habitat in Cape Town. This 
is the ultimate wildlife experience for the adventurous. Drop into the cool Atlantic Ocean and swim with hundreds of playful seals, that will surround you in an instant.  This half day excursion will allow you to interact with these friendly creatures and will definitely be one of the highlights when visiting Cape Town and the Western Cape.www.sealsnorkeling.com 
City Cycle Tours recently introduced a niche tour of the city on a skate-
board, led by an expert skateboarder- a tour with a twist. Duration is between 3-4 hours, starting at the Cape Town Stadium and ending in the in City Centre via Sea Point Promenade.  Tours on scooters are also available for the less adventurous.
Trading hours: Weekdays 07h00 – 17h00
www.citycycletours.co.za/city-skateboard-tour
Weskus 
Day 1
E-bike through the West Coast National Park the perfect destination for birdwatching as there are a number of bird houses dotted through-out the park or choose from a number of hiking trails such as Eves Footprint and Trail. In season (September - October) you will see a kaleidoscope of wild flowers throughout the park and go for a swim in the warmer months in the clear waters of the Langebaan Lagoon.Trading hours: Monday to Friday:  07:30 - 17:00 Saturday: 08:00 - 13:00www.sanparks.co.za
Enjoy windsurfing or Stand up Paddle Boarding on Langebaan main 
beach, the wind direction and speed makes Langebaan the perfect spot to enjoy this water adventure.www.capesport.co.za
Porterville paragliding, Porterville hang-gliding and Porterville free-fly -
ing are all the ideal way to discover Porterville and surrounds from a 
birds eye view.  Trading hours: 7 days a week www.flyporterville.info 
Discover Nature and Adventure
Cape Town
Day 1 
Scootours offers you the unique opportunity to discover Table Moun-tain differently. Make your way down this iconic landmark with some of the best city views.  Other Scootour adventures include Franschhoek Adventure Scootour is where you will free-wheel along sections of the historic 1825 Holloway Pass and 1819 Cats Path ox wagon trail that ends at Haute Cabrière Cellar Restaurant. Scootours can be done in vibe-filled Cape Town and lush forests in Knysna.Trading hours: 7 days a week www.scootours.co.za 
Enjoy some surfing lessons at Muizenberg Beach known for consistent 
waves making it conducive to learning the art of surfing quickly and safely. Trading hours: 7 days a week www.garysurf.co.za 
The panoramic views from the top of Table Mountain can certainly take 
your breath away, but abseiling down this icon, provides even better views. Descending down the side of a sheer cliff you will have Camps Bay, the Atlantic Seaboard and the deep blue ocean at your feet with the Twelve Apostles at your side. www.abseilafrica.co.za 
Day 2  
Explore the City and surrounds by Sidecar.  This trip includes a tour through the inner city, the scenic Atlantic Seaboard, Constantia Wine-lands and one of the most scenic passes – Chapmans Peak drive. Trading hours: Monday to Saturday 08h00 – 17h00 www.sidecars.co.za From African Penguin colonies to climbing the highest mountain peak in Cape Town and the 
Western Cape, discover an abundance of natural beauty and daring adventure experiences. 
Two day itineraries in each region:Cape Garden Route & Klein Karoo
Day 1
Enjoy the Point of Human Origin which could provide evidence on how early humans adapted to climate change, but also how they survived it.Trading hours: 7 days a week 08h00 – 18h00
www.humanorigin.co.za
Sand board in Mossel Bay. Discover the world-famous ‘Dragon Dune’ 
which is the biggest and longest sand board ride in South Africa!  With 
the focus on having fun! They cater for all age groups, beginners and 
Pro’s. If you don’t feel confident enough to stand up on your board, you 
can also sit down or enjoy a belly board ride. 
Trading hours: 
10 Dec to 10 Jan from 08H45
11 Jan to 9 Dec from 09H00
Afternoon session Contact them to confirm time 
www.dragondune.com 
Cango Caves Zip line near Cango Caves in Oudtshoorn is a new experi-
ence that launched the 01 September 2016 at the Cango Caves Estate. 
Look forward to beautiful views of the estate and surrounds. One of the 
longest being up to 180m. 
Trading hours: 7 days a week 09h00 – 16h00 
www.cangocavesestate.co.za 
Day 2
Discover this unique adventure with Meerkats in Oudtshoorn. Located 
on the De Zeekoe Guest farm, the original meerkat conservation site, this is the only site in South Africa where you can do an exclusive 2-3 hour tour with wild meerkats in their natural habitat.Trading hours: 7 days a week www.meerkatadventures.co.za 
Discover Featherbed Nature Reserve in Knysna for the perfect views of 
the Knysna Heads and Lagoon. Go on a boat trip and enjoy a number of nature trails throughout the reserve for picturesque moments.Trading hours: Monday – Friday 08h00 – 18h00 www.featherbed.co.za 
Cape Karoo
Day 1  
This experience is near Laingsburg opposite Matjiesfontein. The Karoo being the largest ecosystem in South Africa, there is no better way to explore than on a quad bike. The farm offers three unique scenic routes, ranging from moderate to challenging terrain. Basic instruction is provided for beginners ahead of the ride. Some of the wildlife to that can be seen on these routes include Grey Rhebuck, Duiker, Steenbok, Springbok, Blesbok, Kudu, Gemsbok, Zebra & Sheep roam the farms pristine expansive arid plains & hills. 
Day 2  
Enjoy a full day of hiking, horseback riding and stay over at one of the unique accommodation in Anysberg Nature Reserve near the Cape Karoo Karoo town of Laingsburg. The wide open spaces and clear night skies will allow for perfect star gazing opportunities. Trading hours: 07h30 - 16h00www.capenature.co.za Day 2  – Cederberg full 1 to 2 day trip
The Cederberg slack packing trails allows you to bask in beautiful rock formations unique to the Cederberg region in the Weskus. Depending on the hiking trial it includes all accommodation at guesthouses and homestays, some in picturesque Moravian towns, meals, guided rock art visits, donkey drives and entrances and fees.Trading hours: Monday to Friday 8h00 to 17h00www.cedheroute.co.za
Cape Winelands
Day 1
You can now abseil down the iconic Paarl Rock in the Cape Winelands. The unique adventure experience allows for beautiful scenic views of the Paarl Valley. The abseil is just short of a 100m. This is an easy abseil, because the start gradient is easy and not vertical.  Included in this experience is a picnic and a guided tour. Booking is essential.Trading hours: 7 days a week www.cascademanor.co.za 
Scootour adventures include Franschhoek Adventure Scootour is 
where you will free-wheel along sections of the historic 1825 Holloway Pass and 1819 Cats Path ox wagon trail that ends at Haute Cabrière Cellar Restaurant.Trading hours: 7 days a week www.scootours.co.za 
Day 2  
Take in the exquisite wine valleys through dramatic Cape Mountains and orchards, tastings on exclusive wine estates. Horse riding is an environmentally friendly way of discovering the destination, highly skilled guides will safely escort you on various. Trading hours: 7 days a week 08h00–17h00www.capewinelandsriding.co.za 
Cape Overberg
Day 1
Visit the Stony Point Eco Centre in Bettys Bay. Visit the On the Edge restaurant and the Whale Museum providing guests with the history of the old Whale Station. The initiative was implemented to uplift the community of Mooiuitsig in Bettys Bay.Trading hours: 09h00 – 17h00 www.whalecoast.info  
The cliffs of De Kelders are a geological wonder and home to a number 
of ancient limestone caves. The Drip Cave or ‘druipkelder’ (as it is called by locals)  is located under a natural spring and large amounts of fresh water percolate through its limestone floor to form crystal clear, natural pools. Trading hours: 7 days a week 
www.dekeldersdripcave.wordpress.com 
Day 2
Marloth offers various day trails, ranging from easy, short walks to 
more strenuous, longer hikes. These trails lead into the shady green indigenous forest, where cool pools and waterfalls wait to be discov -
ered. Day walks are open from sunrise to sunset.Trading hours: 07h30 - 16h00www.capenature.co.za 
Visit Agulhas National Park, where the Indian and Atlantic Ocean meet 
and is also the southern-most tip of Africa. Enjoy a walk along the boardwalk and visit the second oldest operating lighthouse in South Africa. Trading hours: Monday to Friday:  07:30 - 17:00 Saturday: 08:00 - 13:00www.sanparks.co.za


CAPE TOWN BIG 6
Table Mountain
Table Mountain needs no introduction, this 
iconic landmark towers over Cape Town and can be seen from almost anywhere. One of the natural 7 wonders of the world, this icon can be explored by either a cableway or hike up. Whatever you may decide, you will be amazed at the views 
on top of this majestic mountain.
www.tablemountain.net 
Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden
Kirstenbosch National Botanical Gardens was voted Garden of the year at the 2015 International Garden Tourism Awards and are located at the foot of the iconic Table Mountain. The gardens are just over a hundred years old. It is the first garden of its kind to be devoted entirely to a single country’s indigenous fauna. Visit the new Treetop Canopy Walkway, the ‘boomslang’ which gives you a bird’s eye view of the gardens and the surrounding beauty.www.sanbi.org/gardens/kirstenbosch/ 
Robben Island
Robben Island forms part of the UNESCO World Heritage sites of the world and there are few places in South Africa that bear the weight and sheer historical importance. Discover a guided tour by a former inmate on the island which will provide you with a personalized 
experience through the prison cells and 
courtyard where many integral political 
figures such as Nelson Mandela aided in 
shaping South Africa. www.robben-island.org.za
Groot Constantia
Groot Constantia is South Africa’s oldest wine producing estate. You can dine at superb restaurants while sipping on some of the finest wines. The beautiful estate with Cape Dutch architecture offers a wine cellar tour and superb wine tasting opportunities. For big groups wanting to visit the farm restaurants, special dietary requirements will be made. www.grootconstantia.co.za    
Cape Point
There are not many things that can compare to the beauty at Cape Point, which is situated at the South western tip of Africa. These views allow for perfect photographic moments. Take a picture at the Cape of Good Hopesign for the perfect memories.
www.capepoint.co.za 
The V&A Waterfront
The V&A Waterfront is a world recog-
nized shopping hotspot in the Western Cape. With over 450 retail outlets selling everything from fashion, homeware and curios, to jewellery, leather goods and audio visual equipment, theV&A Waterfront is South Africa’s most popular shopping destination and also has prayer room facilities.www.waterfront.co.zaCape Town Big 6 consists of Cape Point, Kirstenbosch National Botanical Gardens, Groot Constantia, 
Robben Island, Table Mountain and Victoria & Alfred Waterfront. These 6 attractions are definitely a must see when visiting Cape Town & Western Cape as they each offer their own unique beauty just waiting to be discovered.
©V&A Waterfront


Inverdoorn Game Reserve
Located in close proximity to the historic town of Ceres one can find Inverdoorn Game Reserve. Inverdoorn provides a home to 1 200 ani-mals.  One can visit the Big Five on safaris or stay at the beautiful Iziba Safari Lodge. www.inverdoorn.com
Aquila Private Game Reserve
Situated only 2 hours outside of Cape Town, close to Touws River, is Aquila Private Game Reserve. Aquila Private Game Reserve offers a Big Five safari experience with views of the Ceres Mountains and landscapes. The accommodation facilities are decorated in African 
style with earthly colours and with wooden furniture, all units feature 
an outdoor shower. 
www.aquilasafari.com
Sanbona Wildlife Reserve
Located at the foot of the Warmwaterberg Mountains near Montagu in the Cape Winelands you will discover Sanbona Wildlife Reserve. The Reserve stretches over 54 000 hectares of beautiful mountains and plains, with indigenous flora and fauna, rock formations and rock art. This reserve is home to an impressive selection of wildlife, which includes the Big Five and the rare free roaming white lions.www.sanbona.com
Kagga Kamma
Experience breath-taking views over Ceres and the Cederberg when visiting Kagga Kamma. Game drives can be done either morning or night. This 15000ha reserve allows one to spot wildlife such as the Black Wildebeest, ostrich, zebra, springbok, Red Hartebeest, bontebok, gemsbok and other antelope species including the eland. If you are lucky you might even spot the lynx, black backed jackal or even the mysterious Cape Mountain Leopard.www.kaggakamma.co.zaGondwana Only 25km outside of the popular holiday destination town of Mossel Bay lies Gondwana. A fynbos reserve that’s home to free roaming Big Five game as well as endangered species like the Cape Mountain Zebra and black harrier.www.gondwanagr.co.za
Botlierskop 
In close proximity to Moordkuil River near the beautiful coastal town of Mossel Bay, Botlierskop Private Game Reserve is also home to the Big 
Five. For the brave, one can even take a guided walk alongside Lions. 
Luxury tented accommodation available.
www.botlierskop.co.za
Garden Route Game Lodge
The Garden Route Game Lodge is only three hour’s drive from Cape Town and situated close to the Aloe producing town of Albertinia. This private game reserve is home to a richness of animal and birdlife including the Big 5. Visitors to the Garden Route Game Lodge can enjoy game viewing in open Landrovers and luxury accommodation.www.grgamelodge.co.za
Discover the luxury game reserves 
in Cape Town and the Western Cape
There are a number of game reserves in Cape Town and the Western Cape with some just 2 hours outside of Cape Town. You can experience the iconic Big Five, made up of the lion, leopard, rhino, elephant and buffalo, not that they need an introduction! Other interesting wildlife such as the Cape Zebra, giraffe, wildebees, and springbok can also be viewed while on safari. Many of these game reserves offer luxury accommodation with guided safari tours and restaurants offering world class dining experiences. 
Maharajah Cape Town CentralThe Maharaj restaurant in the Cape Town CBD is something of an institution in the city. Having first opened its doors 40 years ago, this beautiful Indian venue offers North and South Indian-style dishes on its menu and has established itself as the finest purveyor of traditional cuisine with a South African flavour - from lamb off the bone to butter chicken and Madras fish curry. www.maharajah.capetown/ 
The Raj Camps Bay
Situated on the bustling Camps Bay strip, The Raj serves authentic 
North Indian cuisine. Spicy, delicious and traditional, with a large vari-
ety of authentic Indian culinary styles such as Tikka Masala, Vindaloo, Khorma and Bhoona, it is a favourite for locals looking for an authentic dining experience. www.therajrestaurant.com/ 
Moksh Indian Restaurant 
Based in a number of locations around the Western Cape, all of the chefs working at the venues have learnt their trade in India, having been recruited for their knowledge and the passion for the dishes they prepare. Moksh serves authentic North Indian cuisine and is fami -
ly-friendly.. www.mokshrestaurant.co.za/
Bocca Dolce Vegan Restaurant & Coffee Roasters 
Open for breakfast and lunch, Bocca Dolce is a lovely vegan restaurant located in the gorgeous Bitou River Valley. The breakfast a la Carte menu offers mouth-watering variations of Vegan Breakfast dishes, while the popular lunch time Harvest Table is a representation of a heart-warming, healthy, plant based diet, with a huge variety to choose from. Perfect for family outings.www.plett-tourism.co.za/restaurant/bocca-dolce-coffee-shop/ Thali The brainchild of Chef Liam Tomlin – of the Chef’s Warehouse and Canteen – Thali recreates the laid-back, fine dining atmosphere of the former, with an Indian lilt. A fantastic culinary experience that captures the tastes and scents of India, Thali offers a set of tapas menus, rang-ing from sambals, poppadoms and tandoor to remarkable flavoursome curries. Thali does not take bookings, so be sure to arrive early.www.thalitapas.co.za
Bombay Brasserie Cape Town Central
The Bombay Brasserie is considered one of the best fine dining experi-ences in the city, and with 20 years of experience in some of the world best restaurants, executive chef David Tilly is the driving force behind the popularity of the venue. Putting authenticity and flavour above all else, Tilly and his team ensure that guests are taken on an incredible journey of flavour.www.taj.tajhotels.com/en-in/taj-cape-town/restaurants/bom-bay-brasserie-restaurant 
Marigold Franschhoek
Franschhoek’s first authentic Indian restaurant, Marigold specialises in a variety of Indian dishes, from fragrant curries and briyanis to suc-culent meat cooked in the charcoal tandoor. Marigold head chef Vanie Padayachee has created something really special here, and best you bring your appetite, because you will want to sample everything. The wine list here – as you would expect from a Franschhoek restaurant – is extensive, while Tuk Tuk beer is also available on the menu, with Marigold also forming part of the Leeu Collection. We recommend the sharing menu, which will allow you try everything on the menu, while still allowing you to move afterwards!www.marigoldfranschhoek.com/
Simply Saffron Prince Albert
Based in the charming town of Prince Albert in the Cape Karoo, Simply Saffron is a little gem of a venue offering dishes infused with fragrant spices and local ingredients. Serving dinner on Friday and Saturday 
evenings, booking is essential.
www.princealbert.org.za/simply-saffron/ 
Top Indian & Vegan Restaurants in 
Cape Town and the Western Cape

Cape Town City Hall
A newly-freed Nelson Mandela made his first public speech from the balcony of Cape Town City Hall on the 11th of February 1990. The speech became a defining moment of his legacy. A new larger than life Nelson Mandela statue was erected in his honour on the 24th July 2018 on the very spot he delivered his speech. The Cape Town City Hall is a large Edwardian building located on the Grand Parade, which was where tens of thousands of people gathered to hear and see Mandela address the country. 
Kwa Ace
Dance the night away at Kwa – Ace also known as the “The Castle”, in Khayelitsha. This is where partygoers can enjoy music styles ranging from Gqom to deep and commercial house and kwaito at this recently relaunched hotspot. www.kwaace.co.za  
Battery Park
Battery Park is a new urban park that forms the gateway to the V&A Water -
front. Officially opened in October 2018 this is where visitors can engage in a range of outdoor recreation, entertainment and retail activities in various levels of public spaces.www.waterfront.co.za/battery-park Cape Town - Trendy new 
spots
The Alba Restaurant
Alba Restaurant is a first for Cape Town and is unique in every way, here’s why! The Alba Restaurant is a floating restaurant. Enjoy a fine dining restaurant experience while floating on the waters of the Table Bay Hotel. This 72 seater restaurant is designed to be stable and smooth in the water, with floor to ceiling glass windows which results in great views regardless of the weather.www.thealba.co.za
Cape Camino 
Walk for seven days along the Cape Camino route with 16-20 other walkers. Visit diverse sacred spaces, neighbourhoods and commu-nities and magnificent terrain around the Cape peninsula. Group Caminos offer individual pilgrims and small groups, who seek the solitude of a personal journey, within the comfort and company of oth-er like-minded walkers, sharing accommodation, food, wine, stories, laughs and blisters. Both guided and self guided days available. Plus a range of options such as backpacker shared, homestay or private guesthouse accommodation.www.capecamino.co.za
Norval Foundation
New to the art scene in Cape Town is the Norval Foundation for art and cultural expression located in Steenberg. Visitors can enjoy a sculpture garden, an outdoor amphitheatre, research library, an on-site restau-rant that serves classical South African cuisine and The Apartment is also available to rent for an exclusive “night at the museum” experi-ence.www.norvalfoundation.org
Discover New Experiences 
Cape Garden Route & Klein 
Karoo - Nature 
Featherbed Eco Experience
The Featherbed Eco Experience has officially reopened on 1 December 2018 after the 2017 Knysna Fires.   There is no better way to experience the rejuvenation of nature than taking a journey with a qualified guide through the Featherbed Nature Reserve. The tour includes a return ferry trip on the Knysna Lagoon to the Western Head, 4x4 vehicle & trailer drive up the headland onto the Reserve, stopping at spectacular viewpoints and optional guided 2.2km walk through coastal forest and fynbos into ancient sea caves. This experience is suitable for all ages. www.knysnafeatherbed.com
Cape West Coast – 
The home of New Routes 
Cederberg Circuit
Cederberg Circuit takes you over 247km through winding historical mountain passes, past crystal clear rivers and unique nature reserves. This route can be done in 3 – 6 days.www.capecycleroutes.co.za
West Coast Fossil Park
West Coast Fossil Park has a new visitor centre which enhances the visitor experiences at this unique location. The West Coast Fossil Park near the coastal and popular holiday destination of Langebaan, has one of the world’s richest concentration of fossils dating back to the early Pliocene era some five million years ago. Discover the story when once sabre-toothed cats roamed this land, along with short-necked giraffes, four-tusked elephants and strange, three-toed horses.www.fossilpark.org.za
Heritage Centre at Khwa ttu 
On Heritage Day, 2018, the only heritage centre in the world dedicated to the San opened at !Khwa ttu.The Heritage Centre building at !Khwa ttu is co-curated by San communities and serves as a vibrant demonstration of culture and beliefs and the digital archive will link you to one of the most recorded indigenous group in existence.www.khwattuheritagecentre.org
Cape Winelands – 
Architectural Splendour 
Bosjes
Located near the historic town of Worcester lies something truly mag-
ical and unique surrounded by the inspiring Slanghoek and Waaihoek 
mountain ranges. Bosjes meaning “small bushes” in Dutch is the new 
name given to the old Bosjes-man’s Valley Farm dating back to 1790. The striking new chapel designed by Coetzee Steyn from Steyn Studio is the highlight to many visiting. 
www.bosjes.co.za 
Wine Valley Safari
The Wine Valley Safari offers a safe, reliable, convenient and extremely fun transport in an open-air safari vehicle. Guests have the option to choose from self-guided hop-on hop-off routes to pre-packaged wine tasting tours. There is no better way to explore the Robertson Wine Valley.www.winevalleysafari.com Discover the origin of early sapiens behaviour at SpierSpier Wine Farm in Stellenbosch hosts the Origins of Early Sapi-ens Behaviour until February 2019. This multimedia compilation of displays and artefacts offers extraordinary insights into early human ancestors and Homo sapiens. Cabinets display carefully crafted rep-licas of the archaeological artefacts discovered at Blombos Cave and Klipdrift Shelter.www.spier.co.za 
The Franschhoek Wine Tram has doubled
Franschhoek Wine Tram recently launched their long-awaited, beauti-ful double-decker trams. Also added to their list of new additions are 
two new routes to choose from. The Orange Line departs on the tram 
bus first and includes the following wine estates: Noble Hill Wine Es-tate, Babylonstoren, Backsberg, Glen Carlou, Solms-Delta Wine Estate, Vrede en Lust Estate and Plaisir de Merle; the Purple Line departs on 
the tram first and showcases the western region of the Franschhoek 
Valley stopping at the following wine estates: Vrede en Lust Estate, 
Plaisir de Merle, Allée Bleue Wine Estate, Noble Hill Wine Estate, Baby -
lonstoren, Backsberg and Glen Carlou.www.winetram.co.za
Cape Karoo – Open Spaces 
Heuningland Karoo Trail - Karoo CaminoFollow in the footsteps of Sylvester the lion, by walking a circular route for about 100 km over four days through the beautiful and tranquil Karoo. This trail will revitalise your soul as you take in the natural surrounds and clear starry night skies. The hiking trail will be clearly marked and every one walks at their own pace.www.heuningland.com
Cape Overberg – Wine & 
Cuisine 
Elgin Rail Market
The Elgin Valley is an ideal week-end getaway destination for nature lovers, wine enthusiasts, culinary explorers and adventure seekers.  The Elgin Rail Market officially opens on the 16 June 2018, this is an art deco and art nouveau inspired market. A host of local traders will be available in a very interesting space.www.elginrailwaymarket.co.za
Overberg Meander 
The newly launched Overberg Meander forms part of the Cape Cycle 
Route network. Pedal through the rolling hills of the Swellendam 
Valley with the Langeberg Mountains as your backdrop, as you 
arrive at the southern-most tip of Africa at Cape Agulhas as you embark on your Overberg Meander journey. Stop over at the historic town of Elim – a former Moravian Mission station – and sample the 
unique vintages of the Elim Wine Route, the southern-most wine 
route in South Africa. Discover the quaint, idyllic village of Stanford, 
a quiet town that despite its size punches well above its weight in 
the production of craft beer and artisanal gin and produce. Cruise 
into - and through - the aptly-named Hemel-en-Aarde Valley (Heav -
en on Earth), before finishing your journey in Elgin Valley, a gem of 
the Cape Overberg - an adventure traveler’s dream, with some of 
the most epic mountain biking trails; with wine thrown in for good 
measure.
www.capecycleroutes.co.za 

wesgro.co.za

